# C--Compiler
In this project we have developed a small compiler for a subset of C language, it is implemented in C++ using Visual Studio 2010 and 
contains all the major functionalities and steps involved in Compiler Construction.


The phases of compilation implemented in this code are 
1. Lexical Analyzer
2. Parser (Syntax Analyzer)
3. Intermediate Code Generator (3 Address Code)
4. Virtual MAchine


The first phase of a compiler named Lexical Analyzer returns a token-lexeme pair against each word as well as removes any whitespace 
or comments in the source code.For example in our implementation, the variable declaration such as: 
                    int value = 100;
contains the tokens:
     int (keyword), value (identifier), = (operator), 100 (constant) and ; (symbol)


To develop a parser, we need to Set Precedence, Set Associativity, Remove Left Recursion, Do Left Factoring and Finally Remove the 
ambiguity.


In Three-Address Code, each instruction has at max 3 operands (3 memory addresses), each instruction is executed independently. It is a 
structure less code. For example:
                    a = b + c * d;
We will divide this expression into subexpressions and then generate the corresponding code.
     r1 = c * d;
     r2 = b + r1; 
     r3 = r2 + r1;
     a = r3
     
Finally, this 3 Address Code is given to Virtual Machine which will produce the final result.

Information about the Code Files:
    Initial.cpp - Contains the actual code. 
    Input_File.txt - Contains the input code that we give to our compiler.
    Output.txt, quadruple.txt, symboltable.txt - are generated by our compiler.
